DevOps Starter Guide
Written by Geoff Arroyo

Section 1: General Information
Logging into the server via ssh
 	
Windows users
If you’re on windows, I recommend using powershell to learn terminal commands. The windows powershell allows you to use Unix commands (or DOS commands) on the command prompt. Our digital ocean droplets are ubuntu 18.04 which runs a newer version of Unix, so you’ll be needing to learn Unix commands anyways. 
To get to the powershell, you should hold down the windows button and then press r. Once the run window pops open, type in ‘powershell’ and then hit run. Your powershell should open inside your home directory. 

1.Each of you should have received a slack message with a zip file containing our ssh public and private keys to our server. Download the zip file and extract it onto your local machine. 

Optional but highly recommended
2.Go to your home directory. With mac, you can use the shortcut

cd ~

If you’re using windows, your home directory is likely something like 

\Users\Geoff

Use the command 

ls -a

to check if you already have an existing .ssh directory. If you don’t, you’ll probably want to create a directory .ssh where you can easily access your ssh keys. 
	
sudo mkdir .ssh

Now we can move our public and private keys into this folder. 

Navigate to your downloads folder and find the ‘team22’ folder with our public and private keys inside of them. 
You can move the files individually into the .ssh folder by using the mv command, 

sudo mv team22-rsa /home/geoffarroyo/.ssh
sudo mv team22-rsa.pub /home/geoffarroyo/.ssh

Navigate to the .ssh folder and type in the ‘ls’ command to make sure our files were moved to the right directory. 

3.The team22-rsa key is the private and should never leave your local machine. The team22-rsa.pub is the public key to our server and is already copied onto both our supply and demand servers. Therefore, we can open a TCP/IP session with our supply and demand server via ssh using the private rsa key in our .ssh folder. 

To login to the demand server, enter this command 
ssh -i team22-rsa team22@demand.team22.softwareengineeringii.com
	
To login to the supply server, enter this command
ssh -i team22-rsa team22@supply.team22.softwareengineeringii.com

If you get prompted with a message from ssh asking for user authentication to the server, make sure you type in ‘yes’ and press enter. 

If your login was successful, you’ll see 
Team22@demand-02
or
Team22@supply-02:
on your command prompt.


	
	
	
	


