DevOps Starter Guides
Written by Geoff Arroyo

Front-end testing: Moving from localhost to Nginx 

Most likely, we're going to need to visually display our front-end webpages to get a feel for the CSS design and Javascript functionality.

MAMP is a great tool which we can leverage in this course to host local static html pages on our computers, as well as to test javascript functionality 
when communicating with back-end python files. I'll cover localhost tutorials in another guide. 

The main focus of this guide will be how you should adjust your image paths and javascript window replace URLs after you're finished testing 
your front-end files out on your computer. 

Demand side

The basic idea is that, 

everywhere you see 

'localhost' 

inside your file, you should replace it with 

'https://demand.team22.softwareengineeringii.com'

Supply side

Everywhere you see 

'localhost'

inside your local file, you should replace it with 

'https://supply.team22.softwareengineeringii.com'

Ok, well that's simple enough. What if I have an asset or image which I can use on my local machine, but I want to add onto the server? 

1. Decide which repository the image should be in
2. Each repository should have a folder named 'assets' or something similar. 
3. Make a pull request to put new images inside this folder. 

Now that we've gotten our images that we're using on our local machine uploaded, we need to configure our source path. 

In this example, i'll be woprking out of the demand cloud.

Your source path will always contain:

'https://demand.team22.softwareengineeringii.com'.

Now we need to specify the path to the image on bitbucket as it its put on our server. 

Let's say that I put an image 'note.png' inside the demand-front-end repository, which was put inside an assets folder. 

This would be the correct path:

src = 'https://demand.team22.softwareengineeringii.com/demand-front-end/assets/note.png'

As you can see, we will always

1. Specify our domain name
2. Specify the repository the asset is in
3. Specify the folders inside the repository the asset is in
4. Specify the asset

