DevOps Starter Guides
Written by Geoff Arroyo

Section 2.5: Learning how to manage MySQL tables via the command line 

In this guide we'll cover some of the basics when it comes to interacting with MySQL tables on the command line. This text will likely and should
likely be updated in the future as we all learn more about managing our MySQL tables through the command prompt.

I'll assume in this guide that you've already setup a connection to either our MySQL demand or supply instance. 

It doesn't matter if you're working out of the supply or demand cloud in this tutorial as the commands will work the same. 

1. Setup a connection to out MySQL instance using either the demand or supply cloud

You should see a 

mysql> 

prompt if you successfully logged in. 

Switch to either the team22demand or team22supply database to view our tables using the command 

use team22demand;

OR 

use team22supply;

depending on the droplet you're logged into. 

2. View all of our tables in the database by using the command

show tables;

3. View the column specs of a certain table in our supply or demand database by using the command

describe tableName;

4. Dump all of data inside of a MySQL table out onto the terminal using the command

select * from tableName;

For this section, I highly recommend not actually running these commands unless the DevOps team member told you to do so. These 
commands listed below will affect data inside of our tables and could be hard to undo if a mistake was made.

5. Create a new table in our database by using the syntax,

create table users (userid int auto_increment, primary key(userid), ip int unique, username varchar(40));

6. If you want to delete a specific row inside a table,

delete from users where userid=5;

7. If you want to alter the specifications of a column inside of table..

Say you want to make the username of the users table mentioned earlier a unique column, 

alter table users modify username varchar(40) unique;

** Again, do not try to alter, delete, or create a new table unless the DevOps team member has instructed you to do so.  


